<!-- # mf

Welcome to your new mf project and to the internet computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with mf, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/quickstart/hello10mins)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/build/install-upgrade-remove)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/build/cdks/motoko-dfinity/motoko/)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/motoko-ref/)
- [JavaScript API Reference](https://erxue-5aaaa-aaaab-qaagq-cai.raw.ic0.app)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd mf/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

Additionally, if you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`NODE_ENV` to `production` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.NODE_ENV` in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
 -->

# What is Metaforo on ICP

The forum is a critical piece of infrastructure for any DAO. It's where community members come together to brainstorm ideas, draft proposals, give feedback on each other's ideas, and generally coordinate to get things done. It's critically important for DAOs that their forums are decentralized and owned by community members. Many crypto projects and DAOs have their communities on Discourse. However, because Discourse is a web2 tool with centralized data ownership and other limitations, some projects are looking for Web3 forum tooling alternatives.
Metaforo is a Web3 native forum that has many of the same features as a traditional forum system, such as creating topics, commenting, liking, and polling. But it is web3 native. All content is stored on Arweave, and all governance processes are token-gated and token-weighted.

With all Metaforo’s content being stored on Arweave, we’d like to move another step fruther towards decentralization. Moving the Front-End of Metaforo to IC. This will allow us tofurther increase the decentralization of our platform and reduce reliance on centralized infrastructure. By moving the front-end of Metaforo to IC (Internet Computer), we can distribute the processing power required to run our platform across a network of nodes, rather than relying on a single centralized server. This will improve the reliability, security, and scalability of Metaforo, making it more resilient to attacks and downtime. Additionally, it will enable us to offer a more seamless and decentralized user experience, allowing users to interact with the platform directly through their web browser without the need for a centralized intermediary. Ultimately, this move towards decentralization will help to ensure the long-term sustainability and viability of Metaforo as a truly decentralized platform for content creation and sharing.

# How does this work contribute to the growth and advancement of the Internet Computer ecosystem?

Moving Metaforo.io's front end to the Internet Computer can bring several unique benefits to the Internet Computer ecosystem, including:

1. Adoption: Metaforo.io is an existing web application with an established user base. By moving its front end to the Internet Computer, it can attract new users to the ecosystem who may not have been exposed to it before. This can lead to increased adoption of the Internet Computer and its associated technologies.

2. Demonstration of capabilities: Metaforo.io's front end requires high performance and scalability. By successfully migrating it to the Internet Computer, it can showcase the platform's ability to handle complex web applications with ease. This can build confidence in the platform's capabilities and attract more developers and companies to build on the Internet Computer.

3. Increased network effects: By integrating with an existing web application like Metaforo.io, the Internet Computer ecosystem can benefit from the network effects generated by its existing user base. This can create a positive feedback loop, where the more users that join the ecosystem, the more attractive it becomes for developers and companies to build on the platform, further increasing adoption and growth.

# Our Milestones and Futureplan

We have completed the first stage implementation of the project. 

1. Move Metaforo frontend to IC.
2. Point custom domain for Metaforo to IC

During the final stages of the initial project implementation, we conducted an analysis to explore the feasibility of migrating metaforo's complex backend logic onto ICP. However, we discovered that the business logic on metaforo would incur high gas costs when running on ICP. As a result, we have decided to streamline our business logic and create a decentralized on-chain voting process for ICP.

This system will serve as a straightforward proposal voting platform for the ICP community. The foundation will initiate rounds for idea collections or offer bounties for specific work on this platform. Developers can submit their proposals for these rounds, and the wider ICP community members will have the opportunity to vote for the proposals they support. The winning proposals will receive funding based on the voting results.

[LICENSE](https://github.com/metaforo/metaforo-icp/blob/master/LICENSE) : MIT